    The Newfoundland is a working dog. Newfoundlands can be black, brown,
white and black (called Landseer) or gray. They were originally bred and
used as a working dog for fishermen in the Dominion of Newfoundland
(which is now part of Canada). They are known for their giant
size, intelligence, tremendous strength, calm dispositions, and loyalty.
Newfoundland dogs excel at water rescue/lifesaving because of their
muscular build, thick double coat, webbed feet, and innate swimming
abilities.
    The Newfoundlands ('Newfs' or 'Newfies') have webbed feet and a
water-resistant coat.[4] Males normally weigh 60-70 kg (130-150 lb), and
females 45-55 kg (100-120 lb), placing them in the "Giant" weight range
but some Newfoundland dogs have been known to weigh over 90 kg (200 lb)
- and the largest on record weighed 120 kg (260 lbs) and measured over 6
feet (1.82 m) from nose to tail, ranking it among the biggest Molossers.
They may grow up to 22-28 inches (55-1 cm) tall at the shoulder.[5]
    The American Kennel Club (AKC) standard colors of the Newfoundland dogs
are: black, brown, grey and white and black (sometimes referred to as
Landseer). Other colors are possible, but are not considered "rare" or
more valuable; The Kennel Club (KC) permits only black, grey, brown, and
white/black; while the Canadian Kennel Club (CKC) permits only black and
white/black. The "Landseer" pattern is named after the artist Sir Edwin
Henry Landseer, who featured them in many of his paintings. Federation
Cynologique Internationale (FCI) consider the ECT Landseer ("European
Continental Type") to be a separate breed. It is a taller, more narrow
white dog with black markings not bred with a Newfoundland.
